---
layout: post
title:  "Review of life I"
date:   2022-10-07 16:03:00 +0800
categories: plan
lang: en
---

Reading and writing book notes were an integral part of my life for several years before and after high school. In the past, it was pure. At that time, I liked to read Reference News, Life Weekly and Dushu magazine, visit the bookstore next to the school, and go to the school library to look through books that had not been loaned out for decades. Now, WeChat official account articles, bilibili videos and Zhihu answers have become my main sources of information. In addition to the materials that I have to write, the number of times I have to pick up a pen and write is very limited.



These words sound a lot like nostalgic clichés: The past was slower, more enjoyable, and better than the present. Maybe, but I don't think so. Although some aspects of the world are in a state of decline, my life is generally better than it was in the past. If you give me a chance to return to the age of sixteen or seventeen, I don't want to, because I was too lonely at that time.



In order to relieve loneliness, I read boring books, write reading notes with titles, talk about things beyond my experience from my limited life experience, and try to simulate the decline of blood at a young age. In a word: Beautiful and dazed. So the "pure" at that time was caused by the current situation, even accidental, not an ideal state. But I still want to thank the people who have guided me to read books that have shaped my way of looking at things to a large extent, making me different from my peers in both good and bad ways.



My high school Chinese teacher is a very wise educator. "Education is not about indoctrination, but lighting the torch"; "Education is not about support, but one cloud pushes another cloud", which is her portrayal. She recommended us many good books, read each of our reading notes, and provided gentle, encouraging comments. Even now it seems that my writing is lacking in style, and my views are also lacking.



Since college, I have had the idea many times: "Besides study and work, I should re-read some books I am interested in and write some reading notes", but I have never insisted on it for more than three days. The reason is no more than: too busy, troublesome, no one is watching. The first is a hypocritical excuse, because there is obviously a lot of time to spend on electronic information flow; the second may have some truth, since college has been "running to school", and there is often only one computer in the bag. But there is no pen and paper; the third point is real, I used to have at least one serious reader, but now I often don’t dare to show the people around me because the things I write are too hypocritical, and I don’t think I should. waste their time.



I learned a lot of knowledge and principles in college, the most important of which is to "treat real life pragmatically". Reading has been used by me as a means of escaping the truth, but after so many days, reading should take a different attitude now. In order to maintain balance, it is good to leave some leisure gaps in addition to acquiring knowledge, training ability, and a rich resume. Instead of letting the clutter of videos and news smear these blanks, it's better to read a little interesting book and write your own notes.



About a year ago, I first learned about two ancient blogging sites, Richard Stallman's Personal Site and Lu Changhai's personal home page. They are all over two decades old and carry a large amount of text, including essays, photos, memories, opinions, and excerpts from readings. I think this is a good form, so I set up this static website and plan to update it for a long time. Maybe in the vast Internet, there will be people who come to this site by accident.



Different from the above two, the content of this site is limited to the notes of reading, life memories and a little knowledge. I will not share the current life or specific identification information here. If you are willing to discuss or share interesting books, my email is kiyomizu.e@foxmail.com, letters are welcome.